The President: Hi, everybody.
This week, I spent
a couple days
in Minneapolis, talking with
people about their
lives - their concerns, their
successes,
and their hopes for the future.
I went because of a letter
I received from a working
mother named Rebekah,
who shared with
me the hardships her young
family has faced
since the financial crisis.
She and her husband Ben
were just newlyweds
expecting their first
child, Jack,
when the housing crash dried up
his contracting business.
He took what jobs he
could, and Rebekah
took out student loans and
retrained
for a new career.
They sacrificed - for
their kids,
and for each other.
And five years later,
they've paid off debt,
bought their first home,
and had their second son, Henry.
In her letter to me, she
wrote, "We are a strong,
tight-knit family who has
made it through
some very, very hard times."
And in many ways, that's
America's
story these past five years.
We are a strong,
tight-knit family
that's made it through some
very tough times.
Today, over the past 51
months,
our businesses have created 9.4
million new jobs.
By measure after measure,
our economy
is doing better than it was
five years ago.
But as Rebekah also wrote
in her letter,
there are still too many
middle-class families
like hers who do everything
right - who work hard
and who sacrifice - but
can't seem to get ahead.
It feels like the odds
are stacked against them.
And with just a small
change
in our priorities, we could fix that.
The problem is,
Republicans in Congress
keep blocking or voting
down almost every serious
idea to strengthen
the middle class.
This year alone, they've
said no to raising
the minimum wage, no to fair
pay, no to student
loan reform, no to extending
unemployment insurance.
And rather than invest
in education that helps
working families get
ahead, they actually
voted to give another massive
tax cut to the wealthiest Americans.
This obstruction keeps the
system rigged for those
at the top, and rigged
against the middle class.
And as long as they insist
on doing
it, I'll keep taking actions on
my own - like the actions
I've taken already to attract
new jobs, lift workers'
wages, and help students
pay off their loans.
I'll do my job.
And if it makes
Republicans in Congress
mad that I'm trying to
help people
out, they can join me, and we'll
do it together.
The point is, we could do
so much more as a country
- as a strong, tight-knit
family -
if Republicans in Congress were
less interested in stacking
the deck for those at the top,
and more interested
in growing the economy
for everybody.
So rather than more tax
breaks for millionaires,
let's give more tax breaks
to help working
families pay for child
care or college.
Rather than protect tax
loopholes that
let big corporations set up tax
shelters overseas,
let's put people to work
rebuilding
roads and bridges right
here in America.
Rather than stack the
decks in favor
of those who've already
succeeded, let's realize
that we are stronger as a nation
when we offer a fair shot
to every American.
I'm going to spend some
time talking about
these very choices in
the week ahead.
That's because we know
from our history
that our economy doesn't grow
from the top-down,
it grows from the middle-out.
We do better when the
middle class does better.
That's the American way.
That's what I believe in.
And that's what I'll
keep fighting for.
Have a great Fourth of
July, everybody -
and good luck to Team USA
down in Brazil.
Thanks.